---
layout: page
title: "Overview"
category: bac
date: 2015-04-22 11:40:16
---

### Overview

Version 3.0 is quite different from previous versions since
this is the first version requiring the mapping and combination of ICU
data from two totally different source databases (CareVue and
MetaVision). As we did not have good documentation for the MetaVision
database and the database structure was totally different, it was very
hard to find all the matching data from this large database. The mapping
process was mainly based on searching and studying the data/tables in
MetaVision.

This new version mapped and combined data from MIMIC2V26 (45 tables),
MetaVision (506 tables), additional data sets from BIDMC (23 tables) and
Social Security data sets (2 tables).

Since the source databases were so different, even with our best effort
to make the new database schema similar to the MIMIC II v2.6 tables and
structures, there had to be some changes. The majority of the new
changes added great value to the new database, but there might be some
changes that users will have to re-learn and get used to. We are hoping
to document the changes as thoroughly as we can to make this learning
curve easier.

Also, since the data mapping and merging process was a challenging
process and our first try, there might be issues or bugs. We have gone
through some data integrity checks but we would appreciate if you can
report to us any potential issues or bugs you find in the process of
testing/using this new version of MIMIC II database as well.

One more note is that since almost all tables have grown much bigger in
this version, you may find your search process slower. We are still in
the process of tuning the database and tables to make your searches
faster. Your feedback on this aspect would be much appreciated as well!
Email your comments and observations to
[mimic-support@physionet.org](mimic-support@physionet.org).


